Now that we've set up our environment, we can go ahead and start working with the actual language.
We'll take a look at the basics of the language and then move on to the more advanced topics.
You can follow the tutorial by typing all this stuff on your own in a new notebook, or you can follow
along using the notebooks that are provided with discourse.
So let's start off with the basic definition of a variable so we can go ahead and say awesome variable
is equal to twenty five.
So that defines a variable.
As you can see, the variables are dynamically typed so you don't need to define the types, but they
do have a type.
And we'll take a look at that in a minute.
You can take a look at the value of the variable using just awesome underscore.
So that gives you twenty five.
Now, one important thing that immediately differentiates Julia from almost any other programming language
is that variable names themselves can be in Unicode and Julia, for instance, in Python you can define.
Any variable X to hold a string which has Unicode in it, so we're using a Unicode emoji in this case,
but the variable name itself in Python cannot be a Unicode.
So here it's very possible to do this.
So let's wait and run this.
So as you can see, this is just a variable which holds this string.
And if you try to output the value of this variable, it works perfectly fine.
So this seems weird.
And the way to type this is to go ahead and say slash colon, smite and Hattab, that is going to give
you a pop up and you can select whichever smiley you want.
So, for instance, if you need this, you had to enter and then you hit that again.
So enter.
It seems weird, but you're almost never going to use smileys in your notebooks, right?
So that's weird.
But in general, Julia does use Unicode variables.
For instance, over here we have.
Sigma, and if you want to type Sigma, you can say a sigma and hattab, and it's going to turn it into
the Sigma letter.
And because Julia aims to translate mathematical models into code while remaining visually similar,
this is very helpful.
So, for instance, if you have a mathematical formula that says Sigma is equal to two point five,
you can write that exactly like Sigma is equal to 2.5 instead of having to say is equal to two point
five or having to write Sigma in full.
So it's really useful and it's the general practice in Julia ecosystem to actually use Unicode variable
names.
OK, so we'll come back to this again and again.
So forget about this for a minute.
This is how you type it.
I copied this again.
So slash call and smile.
And then here you hattab, you get a dropdown, you enter that completes it and then hattab again and
enter.
And that in particular, it seems like a lot of work for emojis.
But you're not going to do emojis encode the Latin Greek symbols.
They're really easy.
So you say slash sigma tab and you're done.
OK, anyway, so we have to find this variable name over here.
And if you want to take a look at its type, we can say a type of this cat.
It's a string.
Now, two things to notice over here.
One is that this variable is just a variable.
It's just a name of the variable.
It happens to be an emoji.
The other thing is that all variables have a type.
Always they are going to have a type.
And Julia is somewhere in the middle of Python and C++.
It is going to have very strong types and types of hierarchies in between them.
But you don't have to explicitly specify them unless you're doing optimization of the code.
We'll come back to this when we get the machine learning part.
You can say type of this AI and this is a character not notice the difference between words and single
words in Julia and Julia.
Strings are defined using words and single words are used for single characters just like C ok type.
Of course A is a string we can define.
Sigma is equal to one five as we just discussed.
And now you can go ahead and pass this to a function.
For instance, we have a square root function.
We can say the square root of sigma squared is equal to obviously two point five.
Another thing to note overhead is that Julia uses the Garratt symbol or this little hat symbol for exponentiation.
So Sigma Squared is using GAT and not to Static's, as is with other languages we can print using the
print and then function.
So this is also a building.
You can say a sigma is equal to Sigma and you get the value out.
So this is print l.n. for printing a line, so it's slash and dominated.
If you need help with any building or another function, you can say questionmark space function name
and you'll get a little help regarding that.
So it's giving you some examples and all the things that you can do with it.
We also have integers, so an integer by default is in 64, we also have 32 bit integers will come to
that.
When we do type conversions, we also have real numbers.
So those go into float 64 or float 32, depending on the system configuration, you can do multiple
assignments.
So I understand that I'm going a little quickly, but hopefully this will be very clear for you.
But because this is really basic stuff, if you have any questions, please do feel free to ask questions
so we can have a common musical Tutankhamen 20, then goes into a and twenty goes into B.
We also have another data type, which is the literal type.
So you can say Colon four and this is going to be and in 64 because Colon four is the same as for Colon
B is the same as B, and that is not a string.
That is not a character.
That is what is called a symbol.
So if you try to print this out, if you say Prindle and B, it's going to print some of that weird
stuff.
Right.
So this is not the aski B, this is not the string B, not unique.
Or B, it's just a symbol which you can use.
It has specific certain purposes that we'll get to when we try to apply this concept.
Just take note of this syntax that you can have a colon and then a string of characters so you can say
best and that will be a symbol.
And you cannot say Bess's is equal to 34.
Right.
So that is a an error.
So best itself is not a variable.
It's an actual value of that makes sense.
Just as for the digit four is a little type best is now aleatoric type as well.
OK.
OK, let's wait and do some basic arithmetic so we can do and we have addition, subtraction, multiplication,
division and modulars so they do what you would expect them to do.
So three plus five is eight, three minus one is two, three to four is twelve because we don't have
any spaces in between them.
We have to put spaces like that to differentiate them.
Superintendent does not insert spaces in between different characters as it does in Python.
OK, we can output strings so there is no gap in between these two things we can possibly list.
So a list and Julia is just like it is in Python, so comma separated square brackets.
And that is going to open this over here.
Not as one very important thing over here.
Three plus five, they are both integers and when you add them together, you get an integer out.
But this is saying eight point zero.
The reason for that is the lists that you create in Julia are going to be typed.
The type of the whole list is going to be a particular type.
Julia does what is called a promotion, so if you have any float in the list, everything is going to
be converted into a float.
So this three by five leads to zero point six, which is a float.
And because of that, the whole list is converted into a float.
An easier example for that is one comma, Tucumán 4.0.
And the type of this is going to be an array, which is what Julia calls lists.
And in the array, the type of values for all the elements is flawed.
64, and it's a one dimensional eddy.
So it's one dimensional, as you can see.
And the type of all the elements is stored 64.
That is how Julia works.
It gives a specific time to a list.
And the reason for that is it improves the performance by a lot.
OK.
Just something to keep in mind, Brent does the same thing as Brent Allen, except it does not output
a new line at the end four divided by two over here is an integer division.
So three by five is an integer division that results in zero point six, but four double slash two is
actually a fraction.
So this is a rational which is built into Julia.
So four by two is the fraction, two by one.
You can actually add fractions and get results in actual fractions output.
So this is not going to be any precision loss because this is actually irrational number and you have
built in support for nationals.
And Julia, we can go ahead and convert the data types among each other so I can convert an integer
to an integer 64.
So one goes into that, I can convert it into a flawed 64.
So 1.0, I can convert one point three into an integer 64.
And that is going to give me an error because this point three cannot be discarded.
You'll either have to seal it first or round it first and then go ahead and convert.
OK, so that is the basic conversion.
We do have to do a lot of different conversion things that we'll get to later on in the course.
We have boolean operators.
So if you have two values over here, Walti is true.
Well, if it's false and is using two ampersand science so true and false is false or is using two pipe
symbols and not is using the exclamation mark.
So basic stuff.
We also have string operations.
So we have named John over here and the age over here, we can output them using interpolation.
So wherever you have dollar and brackets in your string, they are going to be interpolated and this
variable name is going to be inserted over here.
So the customer's name is John, who is 35 years old.
Right.
So that is called string interpolation.
It's very useful.
We also have string concatenation.
So concatenation typically is done using plus.
But here it's using the multiply operator.
There is a reason for that.
We don't want to get into that.
But this is a conscious decision to use static instead of plus.
So that does the congratulation.
You can also join multiple strings using the joint function.
So this is a built in function and you can give it a list of strings and a delimiter.
So it's going to join as one space, as two space and so on.
So as one space as two and it's going to return a string to you, you can put the list outside and give
it to join.
And this works as well.
We've already seen string repetition, so use instead of multiply, we use the get it or the heart operator
so you can go ahead and do that.
So this repeats the thing three times.
So this is the basic data types that we have and we're going to obviously use them in detail later on
in the course.
But just to give you a prototype, if you were working in The Notebook, you can write, click and click
on new console for notebook.
This gives you a console over here, which is based on this notebook.
You can drag it out over here to the site and now you can do all the experimentation over here.
So you can say for and this is going to go away after you close the console so you don't have to mess
up your notebook over here.
So this is really good for experimentation and just taking a look at what's going on.
So let's get rid of this.
In the next video, we are going to take a look at how these variables can be combined using control
structures such as conditions and loops.